FN Clarivate Analytics Web of Science
VR 1.0
PT J
AU Kamalahmadi, Masoud
   Parast, Mahour Mellat
TI A review of the literature on the principles of enterprise and supply
   chain resilience: Major findings and directions for future research
AB The purpose of this paper is to investigate the research development in
   supply chain resilience. We undertake a literature survey to review the
   literature on enterprise and supply chain resilience. We aim to provide
   a platform for researchers and practitioners trying to identify the
   existing state of the work, gaps in current research, and future
   directions on the topic. For this purpose, we employed two methods to
   collect publications in supply chain resilience. First, we selected
   keywords and searched the relevant databases and journals. Next, we
   tracked the references of those papers collected in the first method to
   look for other publications published in conference proceedings and book
   chapters. As a result, a sample of 100 papers was collected, studied,
   and analyzed. We summarize our findings in several areas including
   enterprise and supply chain resilience definitions, supply chain
   resilience principles, and supply chain resilience strategies. Based on
   the assessment, we develop a framework for the principles of supply
   chain resilience that can be used as a basis for understanding supply
   chain resilience. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
SN 0925-5273
EI 1873-7579
DA 2016-01-01
UT WOS:000367773600011
ER

PT J
AU Yang, Zhaojun
   Wu, Mengdi
   Sun, Jun
   Zhang, Yali
TI Aligning redundancy and flexibility for supply chain resilience: a
   literature synthesis
EA MAR 2024
AB Redundancy and flexibility are important key drivers for achieving
   supply chain resilience. However, there is a lack of comparison between
   these two elements, and their effectiveness on supply chain resilience,
   as well as how their relationship affects it. To address these problems,
   this study synthesizes the literature on supply chain resilience,
   redundancy, and flexibility, and clarifies specific strategies for
   aligning redundancy and flexibility for supply chain resilience in
   practice. In particular, it identifies the dimensions of redundancy and
   flexibility, and delineates four supply chain statuses: vulnerable,
   robust, lean, and resilient. The understanding leads to a supply chain
   resilience management framework, which provides operational guidance for
   enterprises to evaluate supply chain vulnerability and improve operation
   status. Overall, the framework contributes to the literature with the
   roles that redundancy and flexibility play in achieving supply chain
   resilience in terms of their manifestations and interactions.
SN 1366-9877
EI 1466-4461
DA 2024-03-30
UT WOS:001188063200001
ER

PT J
AU Datta, P.
TI Supply network resilience: a systematic literature review and future
   research
AB Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to investigate the knowledge
   existing in the literature on supply chain resilience for identifying
   the supply chain practices adopted for securing resilience in given
   uncertain event.
   Design/methodology/approach - A systematic literature review is
   conducted to identify 84 conceptual and empirical studies. The research
   findings are synthesized in categories of uncertain events, supply chain
   practices and outcomes.
   Findings - A set of propositions linking the uncertain events,
   mechanisms and supply chain resilience improvement is developed. It was
   found that the sufficient conditions for resilience under unexpected
   disasters are substantially different from those required for resilience
   against disruptions caused by internal practices or complexity.
   Originality/value - Practitioners can benefit from the knowledge of
   interventions and mechanisms to improve their supply chain resilience in
   the face of different unpredictable situations. The contribution of this
   paper is twofold: first, it develops an actionable theory of supply
   chain resilience by developing testable propositions in the context of
   supply chains exposed to uncertainties resulting from unexpected
   disruptions, complexity of supply chains and adoption of certain
   internal practice; second, the paper highlights the key shortcomings of
   existing literature and provides opportunities for further research and
   improvement.
SN 0957-4093
EI 1758-6550
DA 2017-11-19
UT WOS:000414260300020
ER

PT J
AU Golan, Maureen S.
   Mahoney, Emerson
   Trump, Benjamin
   Linkov, Igor
TI Resilience and efficiency for the nanotechnology supply chains
   underpinning COVID-19 vaccine development
EA NOV 2021
AB Nanotechnology facilitated the development and scalable
   commercialization of many SARS-CoV-2 vaccines. However, the supply
   chains underpinning vaccine manufacturing have demonstrated brittleness
   at various stages of development and distribution. Whereas such
   brittleness leaves the broader pharmacological supply chain vulnerable
   to significant and unacceptable disruption, strategies for supply chain
   resilience are being considered across government, academia, and
   industry. How such resilience is understood and parameterized, however,
   is contentious. Our review of the nanotechnology supply chain resilience
   literature, synthesized with the larger supply chain resilience
   literature, analyzes current trends in implementing and modeling
   resilience and recommendations for bridging the gap in the lack of
   quantitative models, consistent definitions, and trade-off
SN 2211-3398
DA 2021-11-28
UT WOS:000721036300001
PM 34722136
ER

PT J
AU Spieske, Alexander
   Birkel, Hendrik
TI Improving supply chain resilience through industry 4.0: A systematic
   literature review under the impressions of the COVID-19 pandemic
EA JUN 2021
AB The COVID-19 pandemic is one of the most severe supply chain disruptions
   in history and has challenged practitioners and scholars to improve the
   resilience of supply chains. Recent technological progress, especially
   industry 4.0, indicates promising possibilities to mitigate supply chain
   risks such as the COVID-19 pandemic. However, the literature lacks a
   comprehensive analysis of the link between industry 4.0 and supply chain
   resilience. To close this research gap, we present evidence from a
   systematic literature review, including 62 papers from high-quality
   journals. Based on a categorization of industry 4.0 enabler technologies
   and supply chain resilience antecedents, we introduce a holistic
   framework depicting the relationship between both areas while exploring
   the current state-of-the-art. To verify industry 4.0's resilience
   opportunities in a severe supply chain disruption, we apply our
   framework to a use case, the COVID-19-affected automotive industry.
   Overall, our results reveal that big data analytics is particularly
   suitable for improving supply chain resilience, while other industry 4.0
   enabler technologies, including additive manufacturing and
   cyber-physical systems, still lack proof of effectiveness. Moreover, we
   demonstrate that visibility and velocity are the resilience antecedents
   that benefit most from industry 4.0 implementation. We also establish
   that industry 4.0 holistically supports pre-disruption resilience
   measures, enabling more effective proactive risk management. Both
   research and practice can benefit from this study. While scholars may
   analyze resilience potentials of under-explored enabler technologies,
   practitioners can use our findings to guide industry 4.0 investment
   decisions.
SN 0360-8352
EI 1879-0550
DA 2021-06-15
UT WOS:000667165200071
PM 35313661
ER

PT J
AU Ma, Chuhan
   Zhang, Lei
   You, Liang
   Tian, Wenjie
TI A Review of Supply Chain Resilience: A Network Modeling Perspective
AB Against the backdrop of globalization, the complexity of supply chains
   has been increasing, making supply chain resilience a critical factor in
   ensuring the stable operation of enterprises, national economies, and
   international trade. This paper adopts a network modeling perspective to
   systematically review the theoretical foundations and research progress
   in supply chain resilience, focusing on the application of network
   modeling methods. First, the concept of supply chain resilience is
   defined, and its developmental trajectory is reviewed. Through
   literature visualization analysis, this study delves into the current
   state of research on supply chain resilience, addressing challenges and
   risk management, highlighting the importance of network modeling
   techniques in this field. Subsequently, it explores supply chain network
   modeling based on complex networks and agent-based modeling, analyzing
   their strengths and limitations in simulating the overall evolution of
   supply chains and the dynamic behavior of individual entities. By
   integrating network structural characteristics with resilience
   evaluation methods, this paper suggests potential directions for future
   research. These include enhancing the description of individual firm
   behavior, analyzing the dynamics of information networks, and
   emphasizing task-oriented model design, thereby offering new
   perspectives and pathways for managing supply chain resilience in a way
   that can generate significant positive externalities for global
   economies. This research also indicates that the enhanced resilience of
   supply chains can produce a multiplier effect, benefiting not only
   individual firms but also promoting economic stability and growth across
   multiple countries.
EI 2076-3417
DA 2025-01-15
UT WOS:001393466100001
ER

PT J
AU Naghshineh, Bardia
   Carvalho, Helena
TI The implications of additive manufacturing technology adoption for
   supply chain resilience: A systematic search and review
EA APR 2022
AB As a disruptive digital technology, adopting additive manufacturing
   impacts the state and structural dynamics of supply chains, thus
   affecting their capability to be resilient. Supply chain resilience is
   essential for business continuity and dealing with unforeseen
   disruptions such as the COVID-19 pandemic. To date, no research has
   exclusively investigated the implications of adopting additive
   manufacturing technology for supply chain resilience, and this study
   aims to overcome this knowledge gap by using the existing literature and
   drawing on the dynamic capabilities view. Hence, a systematic search of
   the literature followed by a critical review of the gathered evidence
   from 87 peer-reviewed journal papers is performed, leading to the
   generation of propositions on how additive manufacturing adoption
   impacts the state of the supply chain, thus influencing certain supply
   chain capabilities and vulnerabilities that affect supply chain
   resilience. These propositions provide a research agenda to empirically
   examine how adopting different processes and applications of additive
   manufacturing technology can affect supply chain resilience in different
   industries. Additionally, this study puts forward a detailed framework
   that indicates how and to what extent adopting additive manufacturing
   can influence the supply chain capabilities and vulnerabilities that
   underlie supply chain resilience. While the results suggest that
   adopting additive manufacturing is expected to improve supply chain
   resilience by mainly enhancing the state of the supply chain and
   positively influencing certain supply chain capabilities, it can also
   cause certain supply chain vulnerabilities to arise, which seem to be
   interrelated with some of the present additive manufacturing adoption
   barriers.
SN 0925-5273
EI 1873-7579
DA 2022-05-21
UT WOS:000794990200001
ER

PT J
AU Negri, Marta
   Cagno, Enrico
   Colicchia, Claudia
   Sarkis, Joseph
TI Integrating sustainability and resilience in the supply chain: A
   systematic literature review and a research agenda
EA APR 2021
AB Sustainability has emerged as an important industrial strategic outlook
   expanding beyond organizational boundaries to include the supply chain.
   Simultaneously, the industry has also been faced with supply chain
   resilience concerns. Research on the intersection of supply chain
   sustainability and resilience is nascent and is a consequence of their
   observed mutual influences. However, confusion about concepts,
   implementation methods, and measurements of sustainable and resilient
   supply chains remains. This study completes a systematic literature
   review that critically examines several major observations and
   directions. We find the concept of sustainable supply chains is more
   established, and general agreement on its theoretical foundations
   exists. Supply chain resilience is relatively less mature. The nexus and
   relationships between the two topics are often incoherent: there is
   confusion on sustainable and resilient supply chains establishment;
   there is no clarity on what practices could jointly advance both areas.
   A major conflict exists since sustainability generally focuses on
   efficiency, while resilience seeks effectiveness. We recommend studies
   to analyze implementation relationships and impact. We also observe that
   performance measurement systems should be developed to assess supply
   chain sustainability and resilience performance taking with explicit
   consideration time horizons considered in these measures.
SN 0964-4733
EI 1099-0836
DA 2021-05-01
UT WOS:000638603000001
ER

PT J
AU Hua, Yuanyuan
   Zhang, Ying
   Zhang, Sujuan
   Hou, Fengmin
   Kang, Manlin
TI Using Building Information Modeling to Enhance Supply Chain Resilience
   in Prefabricated Buildings: A Conceptual Framework
AB Prefabricated buildings usually involve various project participants and
   complicated processes of design, manufacturing, transport, assembly, and
   construction, which means they constantly face supply chain disruptions.
   As a tool to realize information integration and facilitate
   communication among project participants in the supply chain, building
   information modeling (BIM) is widely recognized as an important
   technology to foster supply chain resilience. However, it is unclear how
   BIM can facilitate supply chain resilience in prefabricated buildings.
   This study aims to construct a conceptual framework to better understand
   the influencing paths of BIM on supply chain resilience in the context
   of prefabricated buildings. It employs an integrative review method to
   identify key factors influencing the resilience of the prefabricated
   building supply chain and explore the effects of BIM on these factors.
   The role of BIM in linking these factors was verified through an
   empirical case. The results show that BIM resources and capabilities can
   enhance supply chain resilience by influencing participant factors
   (assembly construction capability, design capability) and partnership
   factors (information sharing, cooperation, coordination, and trust).
   This study incorporates supply chain resilience and BIM technology into
   a conceptual framework in the context of prefabricated buildings,
   providing new theoretical insights for future supply chain management.
EI 2076-3417
DA 2023-12-17
UT WOS:001116971400001
ER

PT J
AU Al Naimi, Maryam
   Faisal, Mohd. Nishat
   Sobh, Rana
   Bin Sabir, Lamay
TI A systematic mapping review exploring 10 years of research on supply
   chain resilience and reconfiguration
EA MAR 2021
AB Supply chain resilience and reconfiguration are emerging disciplines
   that allow supply chains to recover from events and quickly return to
   normal or equilibrium levels of operations. This paper aims to provide a
   systematic mapping review to classify studies on supply chain resilience
   and reconfiguration. In total, 286 studies published between January
   2009 and May 2019 were identified, of which 94 were selected for review.
   The analysis provided a number of thematic areas: descriptive view of
   the selected articles; geographical areas; type of research; research
   methods; and supply chain resilience enablers and reconfiguration
   characteristics. The major significance of this study is to provide an
   assessment of the state of existing knowledge on supply chain resilience
   and reconfiguration and to suggest future research directions. To the
   best of the authors' knowledge, this is the first systematic mapping
   study conducted on supply chain resilience and reconfiguration
   literature.
SN 1367-5567
EI 1469-848X
DA 2021-04-03
UT WOS:000627640900001
ER

PT J
AU Bruckler, Martin
   Wietschel, Lars
   Messmann, Lukas
   Thorenz, Andrea
   Tuma, Axel
TI Review of metrics to assess resilience capacities and actions for supply
   chain resilience
EA MAY 2024
AB Efficiency and profitability are the main drivers of globalization and
   have led to long and complex supply chains. Recent disturbances such as
   COVID-19 or the Suez Canal obstruction caused severe supply disruptions
   and thereby unveiled the vulnerability of global trade. Resilient supply
   chains are characterized by the capacity to absorb, adapt to, and
   restore after disruptions. Building upon the established concept of the
   'resilience curve', this article explores the interplay between
   resilience capacities, metrics, and actions in the state-of-the-art
   literature. We first analyze and harmonize the terminology used to
   describe capacities as well as metrics for quantifying resilience. This
   results in a set of 17 resilience metrics that describe all
   characteristics of the resilience curve and can be used as a tool to
   assess the resilience of a supply chain. Subsequently, we propose how
   these metrics can be applied to quantify the effect of resilience
   actions. Finally, we analyze which actions are proposed in the
   literature and classify those actions according to their relation to
   traditional supply chain planning tasks. Practitioners such as supply
   chain decision-makers can implement these actions to strengthen the
   absorptive, adaptive, and restorative capacities and are provided with
   mathematical formulations to quantify the strengthening effect of
   actions. Academic research can, inter alia, integrate the metrics into
   multi-criteria optimization models for decision-making and explore the
   interplay between economic efficiency, environmental sustainability, and
   resilience.
SN 0360-8352
EI 1879-0550
DA 2024-06-11
UT WOS:001239539700001
ER

PT J
AU Shekarian, Mansoor
   Mellat Parast, Mahour
TI An Integrative approach to supply chain disruption risk and resilience
   management: a literature review
EA MAY 2020
AB A fundamental question in supply chain resilience is identifying its
   antecedents and investigating the relative importance of each antecedent
   in improving resilience to supply chain disruptions. In this paper, a
   comprehensive systematic literature review is conducted to assess the
   impact of each of the most widely known practices to enhance resilience
   (flexibility, agility, redundancy, and collaboration) on mitigating each
   type of supply chain disruption (demand, supply, process, control, and
   environmental disruptions). The literature review found that
   collaboration has been identified by the literature as the most
   important strategy to cope with control disruptions, and flexibility has
   been identified by the literature as the most important strategy to cope
   with demand, supply, process, and environmental disruptions. A framework
   is then developed for identifying the appropriate antecedents in
   improving resilience to different types of supply chain disruptions.
SN 1367-5567
EI 1469-848X
DA 2020-06-03
UT WOS:000534938800001
ER

PT J
AU Rha, Jin Sung
TI Trends of Research on Supply Chain Resilience: A Systematic Review Using
   Network Analysis
AB Researchers have defined resilient supply chain management in various
   ways and have analyzed and explained it using many managerial theories.
   Thus, identifying trends in existing studies could serve as a foundation
   for future supply chain resilience studies. However, despite the
   accumulation of a wide body of literature on resilient supply chains,
   few studies have analyzed the research trends systematically. Therefore,
   the present study aimed to synthesize and summarize research trends in
   the supply chain resilience domain using network analysis. The Scopus
   database and Google Scholar were used to search for research articles on
   supply chain resilience. We conducted an analysis by visually
   representing coauthorship, cocitation, PageRank, and keyword networks
   for 825 research articles and 1725 authors. This study identified the
   main topics, key articles, and major author groups of supply chain
   resilience research. The findings are expected to help expand the scope
   of research to a wide range of subfields in supply chain resilience
   research in the future.
EI 2071-1050
DA 2020-07-14
UT WOS:000543391800006
ER

PT J
AU Zamani, Efpraxia D.
   Smyth, Conn
   Gupta, Samrat
   Dennehy, Denis
TI Artificial intelligence and big data analytics for supply chain
   resilience: a systematic literature review
EA SEP 2022
AB Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Big Data Analytics (BDA) have the
   potential to significantly improve resilience of supply chains and to
   facilitate more effective management of supply chain resources. Despite
   such potential benefits and the increase in popularity of AI and BDA in
   the context of supply chains, research to date is dispersed into
   research streams that is largely based on the publication outlet. We
   curate and synthesise this dispersed knowledge by conducting a
   systematic literature review of AI and BDA research in supply chain
   resilience that have been published in the Chartered Association of
   Business School (CABS) ranked journals between 2011 and 2021. The search
   strategy resulted in 522 studies, of which 23 were identified as primary
   papers relevant to this research. The findings advance knowledge by (i)
   assessing the current state of AI and BDA in supply chain literature,
   (ii) identifying the phases of supply chain resilience (readiness,
   response, recovery, adaptability) that AI and BDA have been reported to
   improve, and (iii) synthesising the reported benefits of AI and BDA in
   the context of supply chain resilience.
SN 0254-5330
EI 1572-9338
DA 2022-10-10
UT WOS:000862203700001
PM 36212520
ER

PT J
AU Sun, Zhanwei
   Li, Xing
   Yang, Xinglong
   Zhao, Lei
TI Research Progress on the Impact of Geopolitical Risks on the Resilience
   of China's Transnational Food Supply Chains
EA APR 2026
AB Geopolitical risks have emerged as a significant factor influencing the
   resilience of transnational food supply chains. This paper
   systematically reviews the foundational theories and key issues related
   to the resilience of transnational food supply chains from the
   geopolitical risk's perspective. Literature analysis indicate that
   geopolitical risks primarily affect the resilience of China's
   transnational food supply chains: supply uncertainty, price uncertainty
   and logistics uncertainty. Additionally, review of empirical studies on
   the impact of geopolitical risks on the resilience of transnational food
   supply chains reveals that existing research generally supports the view
   that geopolitical risks significantly diminish the resilience of China's
   transnational food supply chains, although variations exist across
   different grain varieties and over time regarding the extent and nature
   of these impacts. Finally, this paper proposes future research
   directions, including identifying the transmission pathways of
   geopolitical risks affecting China's transnational food supply chains,
   uncovering the behavioral logic of multiple actors within these chains
   under geopolitical risks, systematically assessing the resilience of key
   nodes and the overall risk level of China's transnational food supply
   chains, conducting an in-depth exploration of the reconstruction
   pathways for these chains, and designing strategies to integrate the
   interests of diverse stakeholders in transnational food supply chains.
SN 0950-0804
EI 1467-6419
DA 2026-04-18
UT WOS:001738472800001
ER

PT J
AU Emenike, Scholastica N.
   Falcone, Gioia
TI A review on energy supply chain resilience through optimization
AB The concept of supply chain resilience continues to attract both
   industry and research experts in the field of energy. These stakeholders
   continue to tackle disruptions to supply chain systems through the
   introduction of strategy options for resilience. A better understanding
   of broader dimensions of potential disruptions to supply chains caused
   by uncertainties has become eminent, especially as currently experienced
   during the global COVID-19 pandemic. The effects of the outbreak in
   disrupting supply chains in the energy sector will, in the next decade,
   continue to be a likely concern for industry and research stakeholders.
   Balancing the increasing need for energy security to meet the continuous
   growth in energy demand through shortage reduction and increased uptime
   using optimization is the core of this research. This review paper
   provides an insight into recent studies in the field of natural gas
   supply chain resilience as a major player in the energy mix, and the
   continued disruption and subsequent shutdowns of plant nodes, which
   results in emission loss to the environment. This paper is motivated by
   the disparity between demand and supply triggered by the disruption of
   supply chain networks. Referenced in this paper are scientific work on
   supply chain resilience of biomass, water, power systems, and natural
   gas. Findings show that existing studies favor fewer system-based
   strategies in optimizing for resilience. This review concludes that an
   optimization is a useful tool to continuously achieve resilience in
   supply chain production, storage, and transportation activities.
SN 1364-0321
EI 1879-0690
DA 2020-11-17
UT WOS:000582927200006
ER

PT J
AU Kong, Liang
   Koh, S. C. Lenny
   Sena, Vania
   Robinson, Darren
   Wood, Matthew
TI Towards a resilience evaluation framework for hydrogen supply chains: A
   systematic literature review and future research agenda
EA DEC 2024
AB Hydrogen energy is crucial for achieving net zero targets, making the
   resilience of hydrogen supply chains (HSCs) increasingly important.
   Understanding current research on HSC resilience is key to enhancing it.
   Few studies summarise HSC resilience evaluation methods and link them to
   the general supply chain resilience and complex adaptive system (CAS)
   evaluation approaches. This study addresses this gap by systematically
   reviewing the literature on HSC resilience evaluations, defining HSC
   resilience, and conducting content analysis. It proposes a conceptual
   framework integrating technical, operational, and organisational
   perspectives. Each perspective is further subdivided based on the course
   of events, resulting in a system-based HSC resilience evaluation
   framework with three layers of analysis. By linking HSC indicators with
   CAS theory and supply chain performance metrics, the study offers novel
   insights into HSC resilience evaluations, identifies research gaps,
   provides practical guidance for practitioners, and outlines future
   research directions for advancing HSC resilience understanding.
SN 0360-3199
EI 1879-3487
DA 2025-01-13
UT WOS:001392543900001
ER

PT J
AU Golan, Maureen S.
   Trump, Benjamin D.
   Cegan, Jeffrey C.
   Linkov, Igor
TI Supply chain resilience for vaccines: review of modeling approaches in
   the context of the COVID-19 pandemic
EA MAY 2021
AB Purpose Despite rapid success in bringing SARS-CoV-2 vaccines to
   distribution by multiple pharmaceutical corporations, supply chain
   failures in production and distribution can plague pandemic recovery.
   This review analyzes and addresses gaps in modeling supply chain
   resilience in general and specifically for vaccines in order to guide
   researchers and practitioners alike to improve critical function of
   vaccine supply chains in the face of inevitable disruptions.
   Design/methodology/approach Systematic review of the literature on
   modeling supply chain resilience from 2007 to 2020 is analyzed in tandem
   with the vaccine supply chain manufacturing literature. These trends are
   then used to apply a novel matrix analysis to seven Securities and
   Exchange Commission (SEC) annual filings of pharmaceutical corporations
   involved in COVID-19 vaccine manufacture and distribution. Findings
   Pharmaceutical corporations favor efficiency as they navigate
   regulatory, economic and other threats to their vaccine supply chains,
   neglecting resilience - absorption, adaptation and recovery from
   inevitable and unexpected disruptions. However, explicitly applying
   resilience analytics to the vaccine supply chain and further leveraging
   emerging network science tools found in the academic literature, such as
   artificial intelligence (AI), stress tests and digital twins, will help
   supply chain managers to better quantify efficiency/resilience tradeoffs
   across all associated networks/domains and support optimal system
   performance post disruption. Originality/value This is the first review
   addressing resilience analytics in vaccine supply chains and subsequent
   extension to operational management through novel matrix analyses of SEC
   Filings. The authors provide analyses and recommendations that
   facilitate resilience quantification capabilities for vaccine supply
   chain managers, regulatory agencies and corporate stakeholders and are
   especially relevant for pandemic response, including application to the
   SARS-CoV-2 vaccines.
SN 0263-5577
EI 1758-5783
DA 2021-06-09
UT WOS:000652568900001
ER

PT J
AU Torres-Rivera, Alma Delia
   Valdes, Angel de Jesus Mc Namara
   Florencio Da Silva, Rodrigo
TI The Resilience of the Renewable Energy Electromobility Supply Chain:
   Review and Trends
AB Electromobility has been crucial in mitigating transport emissions and
   meeting reduction targets. From this context, this literature review's
   main objective is to analyze the resilience of the electromobility
   supply chain that integrates renewable energy sources. This literature
   review focuses on the resilience of the electromobility supply chain and
   how it can incorporate renewable energy sources. The central argument is
   that the success of the supply chain depends on its ability to resist,
   adapt, and recover from disruptions that affect operations. We
   comprehensively review current knowledge in three stages: identifying
   critical components of resilience, highlighting challenges and
   opportunities for risk mitigation, establishing strategic alliances, and
   synthesizing vital issues, trends, and emerging areas that require
   further research. The findings emphasize the importance of improving
   supply chain resilience for sustainable transportation and environmental
   preservation under five guidelines: emergency preparedness, monitoring
   and evaluation, sustainable practices, maintenance of essential
   services, and prevention of operational disruptions.
EI 2071-1050
DA 2023-10-06
UT WOS:001071430800001
ER

PT J
AU Hosseini, Seyedmohsen
   Ivanov, Dmitry
   Dolgui, Alexandre
TI Review of quantitative methods for supply chain resilience analysis
AB Supply chain resilience (SCR) manifests when the network is capable to
   withstand, adapt, and recover from disruptions to meet customer demand
   and ensure performance. This paper conceptualizes and comprehensively
   presents a systematic review of the recent literature on quantitative
   modeling the SCR while distinctively pertaining it to the original
   concept of resilience capacity. Decision-makers and researchers can
   benefit from our survey since it introduces a structured analysis and
   recommendations as to which quantitative methods can be used at
   different levels of capacity resilience. Finally, the gaps and
   limitations of existing SCR literature are identified and future
   research opportunities are suggested.
SN 1366-5545
EI 1878-5794
DA 2019-05-01
UT WOS:000467517000014
ER

PT J
AU Hobbs, Jill E.
   Hadachek, Jeffrey
TI The Economics of Food Supply Chain Resilience
AB Food supply chain resilience has become a priority for policymakers in
   recent years. Prompted by several systemic disruptions and the increased
   likelihood of future shocks, significant attention and public financial
   investment have been devoted to preparing supply chains to be more able
   to absorb shocks and more nimbly respond in the future. Food and
   agricultural supply chains have been particularly scrutinized due to
   widespread shortages and food price inflation of key staples in recent
   years. Varied perspectives have emerged about the factors that
   contribute to the resiliency of food supply chains and the interventions
   that will be most effective. This article reviews the perspectives on
   food supply chain resilience generally. Furthermore, we attempt to
   synthesize the methodologies that have been used to study resilience and
   offer some guidance for economists studying the topic moving forward.
SN 1941-1340
EI 1941-1359
DA 2024-11-03
UT WOS:001333207400019
ER

PT J
AU Stone, Jamie
   Rahimifard, Shahin
TI Resilience in agri-food supply chains: a critical analysis of the
   literature and synthesis of a novel framework
AB Purpose Resilience in agri-food supply chains (AFSCs) is an area of
   significant importance due to growing supply chain volatility. While the
   majority of research exploring supply chain resilience has originated
   from a supply chain management perspective, many other disciplines (such
   as environmental systems science and the social sciences) have also
   explored the topic. As complex social, economic and environmental
   constructs, the priority of resilience in AFSCs goes far beyond the
   company specific focus of supply chain management works and would
   conceivably benefit from including more diverse academic disciplines.
   However, this is hindered by inconsistencies in terminology and the
   conceptual components of resilience across different disciplines. The
   purpose of this study is to use a systematic literature review to
   identify which multidisciplinary aspects of resilience are applicable to
   AFSCs and to generate a novel AFSC resilience framework.
   Design/methodology/approach This paper uses a structured and
   multidisciplinary review of 137 articles in the resilience literature
   followed by critical analysis and synthesis of findings to generate new
   knowledge in the form of a novel AFSC resilience framework.
   Findings Findings indicate that the complexity of AFSCs and subsequent
   exposure to almost constant external interference means that disruptions
   cannot be seen as a one-off event; thus, resilience must concern the
   ability to not only maintain core function but also adapt to changing
   conditions.
   Practical implications A number of resilience elements can be used to
   enhance resilience, but their selection and implementation must be
   carefully matched to relevant phases of disruption and assessed on their
   broader supply chain impacts. In particular, the focus must be on
   overall impact on the ability of the supply chain as a whole to provide
   food security rather than to boost individual company performance.
   Originality/value The research novelty lies in the utilisation of wider
   understandings of resilience from various research fields to propose a
   rigorous and food-specific resilience framework with end consumer food
   security as its main focus.
SN 1359-8546
EI 1758-6852
DA 2018-06-22
UT WOS:000434988900004
ER

PT J
AU Gurung, Chet Narayan
   Alashwal, Ali
   Osei-Kyei, Robert
TI Supply Chain Complexity and Resilience Management Strategies in
   Megaprojects: A Literature Review
EA APR 2026
AB Megaprojects involve complex, multi-tier supply chains characterised by
   high interdependence, diverse stakeholders, and significant uncertainty.
   Despite their strategic and economic importance, many megaprojects
   continue to experience persistent cost overruns and schedule delays,
   suggesting that performance challenges stem largely from difficulties in
   managing supply chain complexity rather than technical issues alone.
   This study adopts a systematic literature review of peer-reviewed
   publications from 2015 to 2025, sourced from Scopus and Web of Science.
   Using PRISMA-guided screening and eligibility procedures, 94 relevant
   articles were analysed to examine the drivers of supply chain
   complexity, their performance implications, and resilience strategies
   applicable to megaproject contexts. The review identifies various supply
   chain complexity drivers that intensify coordination challenges, reduce
   supply chain visibility, and increase disruption risks, contributing to
   inefficiencies, delays, and cost escalation. Proactive and reactive
   resilience strategies, such as multi-sourcing, collaboration,
   flexibility, redundancy, and contingency planning, are found to
   strengthen adaptive capacity and recovery. The study concludes that
   integrating complexity management with resilience-oriented practices
   provides a critical pathway for improving megaproject supply chain
   performance and offers a conceptual foundation for future empirical
   validation.
EI 2075-5309
DA 2026-05-16
UT WOS:001763796900001
ER

PT J
AU Doetsch, Sebastian
   Huchzermeier, Arnd
TI The intersection of supply chain resilience and sustainability from a
   theoretical and practical perspective: An integrated framework
EA DEC 2024
AB In times of increasing disruption and scarcity of natural resources,
   many companies view supply chain resilience (SCRE) and supply chain
   sustainability (SCS) as primary strategic objectives. While there is an
   emerging body of literature linking resilience and sustainability in
   supply chains, specific aspects such as nature of the connection remain
   underexplored. We therefore conducted a large-scale survey of 143
   practitioners to gain empirical insights on the intersection of
   resilience and sustainability from the perspective of supply chain
   executives. The main results are first that key barriers to both SCRE
   and SCS are budget constraints and product complexity, and second that
   implemented resilience strategies affect the degree of sustainability
   and vice versa. We present a conceptual framework that illustrates the
   relationship's identified characteristics and reveals the multiple
   dimensions of these concepts' intersection. Approaching each objective
   with an integrated approach and mindset will help executives overcome
   the goals' common barrier - product and partner complexity - and thereby
   develop a competitive advantage.
SN 0959-6526
EI 1879-1786
DA 2024-12-25
UT WOS:001377181700001
ER

PT J
AU Alemsan, Najla
   Tortorella, Guilherme
   Taboada Rodriguez, Carlos Manuel
   Balouei Jamkhaneh, Hadi
   Lima, Rui M.
TI Lean and resilience in the healthcare supply chain - a scoping review
EA JAN 2022
AB Purpose The importance of a lean health-care supply chain is
   increasingly discussed. However, it is still not very clear how lean
   practices relate to resilience capabilities, as there are synergies and
   divergences between them. This study aims at identifying the
   relationship between lean practices and resilience capabilities in the
   health-care supply chain. Design/methodology/approach This study
   conducted a scoping review based on five databases, which allowed the
   content analysis of 44 articles. Such analysis allowed the verification
   of trends and volume of studies on this topic. Further, the descriptive
   numerical and thematic analyses enabled the proposition of a conceptual
   framework, relating the adoption of lean practices to the development of
   resilience capabilities according to the tiers of the health-care supply
   chain in different value streams. Findings Three research directions
   were derived from this scoping review: empirical validation of the
   contribution of lean practices to resilience capabilities in the
   health-care supply chain; systemic implementation of lean practices
   across tier levels of the health-care supply chain; and complementary
   approaches to lean implementation toward a more resilient health-care
   supply chain. Practical implications The understanding of these
   relationships provides health-care managers arguments to prioritize the
   application of lean practices to improve desired resilience capabilities
   in the entire health-care supply chain. Originality/value To the best of
   the authors' knowledge, there is no similar study in the literature.
SN 2040-4166
EI 2040-4174
DA 2022-01-12
UT WOS:000739439700001
ER

PT J
AU Zavala-Alcivar, Antonio
   Verdecho, Maria-Jose
   Alfaro-Saiz, Juan-Jose
TI A Conceptual Framework to Manage Resilience and Increase Sustainability
   in the Supply Chain
AB The challenges of global economies foster supply chains to have to
   increase their processes of collaboration and dependence between their
   nodes, generating an increase in the level of vulnerability to possible
   impacts and interruptions in their operations that may affect their
   sustainability. This has developed an emerging area of interest in
   supply chain management, considering resilience management as a
   strategic capability of companies, and causing an increase in this area
   of research. Additionally, supply chains should deal with the three
   dimensions of sustainability (economic, environmental, and social
   dimensions) by incorporating the three types of objectives in their
   strategy. Thus, there is a need to integrate both resilience and
   sustainability in supply chain management to increase competitiveness.
   In this paper, a systematic literature review is undertaken to analyze
   resilience management and its connection to increase supply chain
   sustainability. In the review, 232 articles published from 2000 to
   February 2020 in peer-reviewed journals in the Scopus and ScienceDirect
   databases are analyzed, classified, and synthesized. With the results,
   this paper develops a conceptual framework that integrates the
   fundamental elements for analyzing, measuring, and managing resilience
   to increase sustainability in the supply chain. Finally, conclusions,
   limitations, and future research lines are exposed.
EI 2071-1050
DA 2020-10-27
UT WOS:000578960600001
ER

PT J
AU Senna, Pedro
   Reis, Augusto da Cunha
   Castro, Alexandre
   Dias, Ana Claudia
TI Promising research fields in supply chain risk management and supply
   chain resilience and the gaps concerning human factors: A literature
   review
AB BACKGROUND: Recent studies concerning supply chain management have shown
   that topics such as supply chain risk management (SCRM) and supply chain
   resilience (SCRes) are the new trends in supply chain management.
   Initial studies in the early 2000s developed frameworks to identify,
   measure and mitigate risks and assess/evaluate the degree of resilience
   of a company or supply chain. Recently, a large variety of studies has
   emerged, including more conceptual and review studies as well as more
   sophisticated, quantitative studies. However, studies on human-related
   factors are still lacking, and there is no systematic method to answer
   questions such as "What literature is available concerning human factors
   related to SCRM and SCRes?", "Which human factors contribute to SCRes?"
   and "Which human factor can amplify SC Risks?"
   OBJECTIVE: The main goal of this paper is to conduct a systematic
   literature review to identify human factors that impact supply chain
   resilience and supply chain risk management.
   METHOD: This study was performed using the Preferred Reporting Items for
   Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) method. The objective of
   using this review protocol is to ensure that the review has the minimum
   amount of bias due to research expectations.
   RESULTS: This study highlighted a summary of human-related risk and
   resilience factors as well as a discussion about these preliminary
   findings.
   CONCLUSIONS: As our main conclusion, we highlight that human factors may
   generate significant risks in the supply chain, nevertheless, there are
   other human factors that must be nourished to obtain SCRes.
SN 1051-9815
EI 1875-9270
DA 2020-12-22
UT WOS:000592247500023
PM 33074212
ER

PT J
AU Sawyerr, Emmanuel
   Harrison, Christian
TI Resilience in healthcare supply chains: a review of the UK's response to
   the COVID19 pandemic
EA JUL 2022
AB Purpose The purpose of this explorative research is to analyse the
   resilience of the United Kingdom's (UK) healthcare supply chains from a
   customer's perspective in the light of the coronavirus pandemic.
   Design/methodology/approach Using the capabilities of preparedness,
   robustness, recovery and adaptability as the foundational percept for
   supply chain resilience, 22 healthcare professionals in 17 of the UK's
   National Health Scheme (NHS) Trusts were interviewed to explore their
   personal and organisational approaches adopted relative to the provision
   of eye protection, gloves, gowns, aprons, masks and respirators. The
   Dynamic Capabilities View is mapped to the resilience capabilities and
   used to analyse the data from a transformational supply chain research
   perspective. Findings The supply chains were largely unprepared, which
   was not particularly surprising even though the availability of gloves
   was significantly better compared to the other personal protective
   equipment (PPE). Techniques adopted to ensure robustness and recovery
   revealed the use of unsanctioned methods such as extended use of PPE
   beyond recommended use, redefinition of guidelines, protocols and
   procedures by infection control and the use of expired PPE - all of
   which compromised customer well-being. Research limitations/implications
   As the paper views resilience through the lens of customers, it does not
   provide the perspectives of the supply chain practitioners as to the
   reasons for the findings and the challenges within these supply chains.
   Practical implications The compromise of the well-being of healthcare
   workers due to the vulnerabilities of healthcare supply chains is
   highlighted to managers and prescriptions for post-disruption
   adaptability are made. Originality/value This paper introduces
   transformative research to supply chain resilience research by uniquely
   looking at resilience from the customers' well-being perspective.
SN 0960-0035
EI 1758-664X
DA 2022-07-20
UT WOS:000824845700001
ER

PT J
AU Negi, Pushpa
   Jaiswal, Anand
   Rekunenko, Ihor
TI Supply Chain Resilience, Organizational Effectiveness, and Firm
   Performance: A Systematic Review and Future Research Agenda
AB This study systematically reviews the relationship between supply chain
   resilience, organizational effectiveness, and firm performance. It aims
   to fill gaps in the literature by integrating various theoretical
   frameworks, contexts, and variables through the Theory, Context,
   Characteristics, and Methodology (TCCM) framework. Analyzing 58 articles
   from Scopus and Google Scholar using the Scientific Procedures and
   Rationales for Systematic Literature Reviews (SPR-4-SLR) approach, the
   study employs the TCCM framework to examine the existing literature.
   This approach systematically explores the theories underpinning the
   relationship between supply chain resilience, organizational
   effectiveness, and firm performance, the contextual factors influencing
   this dynamic, the distinctive characteristics shaping their interaction,
   and the diverse methods employed in the studies. The study offers
   insights by synthesizing existing research directions aimed at improving
   supply chain resilience and firm performance. The study highlights the
   need for modern theories and innovative methods, such as digitalization,
   the circular economy, and risk analytics. It identifies notable gaps in
   understanding the relationship between supply chain resilience and
   organizational effectiveness and explores potential avenues for future
   research in this domain. This research contributes to the knowledge base
   of supply chain resilience, organizational effectiveness, and firm
   performance. It provides theoretical insights for researchers in supply
   chain management, flexible management, organizational management, and
   related areas. It lays the groundwork for future research efforts,
   encouraging further investigation into this relationship and
   contributing to the evolving discourse on organizational resilience and
   performance.
SN 2158-2440
DA 2025-11-18
UT WOS:001613889900001
ER

PT J
AU Priyadarshini, Jaya
   Singh, Rajesh Kr
   Mishra, Ruchi
   Chaudhuri, Atanu
   Kamble, Sachin
TI Supply chain resilience and improving sustainability through additive
   manufacturing implementation: a systematic literature review and
   framework
EA OCT 2023
AB Additive manufacturing (AM) is rapidly transforming supply chains across
   various sectors. This study explores the current academic literature on
   AM applications in the supply chain and practitioner literature to
   explore the application of AM across various sectors. It then identifies
   AM's role in achieving supply chain resilience and environmental
   sustainability. Key themes addressed in the literature have also been
   discussed. TCM (Theory, Characteristics and Methodology) framework has
   been used to identify the research gaps and provide future research
   directions. The study also proposes a research framework and
   propositions based on AM characteristics and capabilities required to
   achieve supply chain resilience and environmental sustainability through
   AM. This study extends the AM literature to present an integrated
   approach towards simultaneously achieving resilience and environmental
   sustainability. The study reveals how the AM characteristics of design
   freedom, part consolidation and on-demand tool-less manufacturing aid in
   achieving the twin benefits. The research propositions could be taken by
   researchers interested in exploring the field further. The findings of
   this study will enable the decision-makers contemplating adopting AM, in
   making informed decisions and be better prepared.
SN 0953-7287
EI 1366-5871
DA 2023-11-08
UT WOS:001091214700001
ER

PT J
AU Ismail, Khalib
   Nikookar, Ethan
   Pepper, Matthew
   Stevenson, Mark
TI The implications of Industry 4.0 for managing supply chain disruption
   and enhancing supply chain resilience: a systematic literature review
EA APR 2025
AB The increasing susceptibility of modern supply chains to disruptions has
   become a pressing concern for businesses worldwide. Globalisation,
   technological advancements, and the rise of a wide range of disruptions,
   from natural disasters to man-made disasters, have highlighted the need
   for a better approach to Supply Chain Disruption Management (SCDM). The
   recent emergence of Industry 4.0 technologies has promised new
   possibilities in enhancing SCDM. This systematic literature review
   reveals that while some Industry 4.0 technologies are being utilised to
   manage supply chain disruptions, a more comprehensive and strategic
   approach is needed, especially in light of global supply chain
   disruptions. The findings indicate that only 5 out of the 8 commonly
   discussed Industry 4.0 technologies are currently being utilised to
   manage supply chain disruptions with approaches primarily focused on
   robustness, resilience, and risk management, rather than advancing
   towards the more recent concepts such as antifragility, viability, and
   survivability. Drawing on the dynamic capabilities theory, this study
   introduces a novel middle-range theory elaborating how the integration
   of Industry 4.0 technologies can contribute to developing the
   antecedents required for each SCDM approach, ultimately benefiting both
   researchers and practitioners in the field of supply chain management.
SN 0020-7543
EI 1366-588X
DA 2025-05-13
UT WOS:001482692400001
ER

PT J
AU Krimi, Issam
   Bahou, Ziyad
   Al-Aomar, Raid
TI Resilient and sustainable B2B chemical supply chain capacity expansions:
   a systematic literature review
EA AUG 2024
AB Purpose - This work conducts a comprehensive analysis of how to
   incorporate resilience and sustainability into capacity expansion
   strategies for business-to-business (B2B) chemical supply chains. This
   study aims to guide both researchers and managers on ensuring
   profitability in B2B chemical supply chains while minimizing
   environmental impacts, complying with regulations and mitigating
   disruptions and risks. Design/methodology/approach - A systematic
   literature review is conducted to analyze the interplay between
   sustainability and resilience in chemical B2B supply chains, specify the
   quantitative and qualitative methods used to tackle this challenge and
   identify the drivers and barriers concerning capacity expansion. In
   addition, a comprehensive conceptual framework is suggested to outline a
   compelling research agenda. Findings - The findings emphasize the
   increasing importance of modeling and resolving decision-making
   challenges related to sustainable and resilient supply chains,
   particularly in capital-intensive chemical industries. Yet, there is no
   standardized strategy for addressing these challenges. The predominant
   solution methods are heuristic and metaheuristic, and the selection of
   performance metrics tends to be empirical and tailored to specific
   cases. The main barriers to achieving sustainability and resilience
   arise from resource limitations within the supply chain. Conversely, the
   key drivers of performance focus on enhancing efficiency,
   competitiveness, cost effectiveness and risk management. Practical
   implications - This work offers practitioners a conceptual framework
   that synthesizes the knowledge and tackles the challenges of designing
   sustainable and resilient supply chains as well as managing their
   operations in the context of B2B chemical supply chains. Results provide
   a practical guide for navigating the complex interplay of
   sustainability, resilience and chemical supply chain expansion.
   Originality/value - The key concepts and dimensions associated with
   capacity expansion planning for a resilient and sustainable chemical
   supply chain are identified through structured and comprehensive
   analyses of existing literature. A conceptual framework is proposed for
   delineating the intersections among sustainability, resilience and
   chemical supply chain expansions. This mapping endeavor aims to
   facilitate a future characterized by the deployment of a nexus of
   resilience and sustainability in chemical supply chains. To this end, a
   promising future research agenda is accordingly outlined.
SN 0885-8624
EI 2052-1189
DA 2024-08-27
UT WOS:001295637900001
ER

PT J
AU Ghadge, Abhijeet
   Weiss, Maximilian
   Caldwell, Nigel D.
   Wilding, Richard
TI Managing cyber risk in supply chains: a review and research agenda
AB Purpose
   In spite of growing research interest in cyber security, inter-firm
   based cyber risk studies are rare. Therefore, this study aims to
   investigate cyber risk management in supply chain contexts.
   Design/methodology/approach
   Adapting a systematic literature review process, papers from
   interdisciplinary areas published between 1990 and 2017 were selected.
   Different typologies, developed for conducting descriptive and thematic
   analysis, were established using data mining techniques to conduct a
   comprehensive, replicable and transparent review.
   Findings
   The review identifies multiple future research directions for cyber
   security/resilience in supply chains. A conceptual model is developed,
   which indicates a strong link between information technology,
   organisational and supply chain security systems. The human/behavioural
   elements within cyber security risk are found to be critical; however,
   behavioural risks have attracted less attention because of a perceived
   bias towards technical (data, application and network) risks. There is a
   need for raising risk awareness, standardised policies, collaborative
   strategies and empirical models for creating supply chain
   cyber-resilience.
   Research limitations/implications - Different types of cyber risks and
   their points of penetration, propagation levels, consequences and
   mitigation measures are identified. The conceptual model developed in
   this study drives an agenda for future research on supply chain cyber
   security/resilience.
   Practical implications - A multi-perspective, systematic study provides
   a holistic guide for practitioners in understanding cyber-physical
   systems. The cyber risk challenges and the mitigation strategies
   identified support supply chain managers in making informed decisions.
   Originality/value
   To the best of the authors' knowledge, this is the first systematic
   literature review on managing cyber risks in supply chains. The review
   defines supply chain cyber risk and develops a conceptual model for
   supply chain cyber security systems and an agenda for future studies.
SN 1359-8546
EI 1758-6852
DA 2020-03-05
UT WOS:000515165100001
ER

PT J
AU Katsaliaki, K.
   Galetsi, P.
   Kumar, S.
TI Supply chain disruptions and resilience: a major review and future
   research agenda
EA JAN 2021
AB Our study examines the literature that has been published in important
   journals on supply chain disruptions, a topic that has emerged the last
   20 years, with an emphasis in the latest developments in the field.
   Based on a review process important studies have been identified and
   analyzed. The content analysis of these studies synthesized existing
   information about the types of disruptions, their impact on supply
   chains, resilience methods in supply chain design and recovery
   strategies proposed by the studies supported by cost-benefit analysis.
   Our review also examines the most popular modeling approaches on the
   topic with indicative examples and the IT tools that enhance resilience
   and reduce disruption risks. Finally, a detailed future research agenda
   is formed about SC disruptions, which identifies the research gaps yet
   to be addressed. The aim of this study is to amalgamate knowledge on
   supply chain disruptions which constitutes an important and timely as
   the frequency and impact of disruptions increase. The study summarizes
   and builds upon the knowledge of other well-cited reviews and surveys in
   this research area.
SN 0254-5330
EI 1572-9338
DA 2021-01-26
UT WOS:000606155700001
PM 33437110
ER

PT J
AU Beta, Katerina
   Nagaraj, Sakthi Shalini
   Weerasinghe, Tharindu D. B.
TI The role of artificial intelligence on supply chain resilience
EA MAR 2025
AB Purpose Supply chains are facing several challenges due to disruptions
   and changing situations such as COVID-19 and the need for increased
   levels of resilience is more important than ever. This paper focuses on
   exploring the impact of artificial intelligence (AI) on supply chain
   resilience (SCR) through a review of the existing literature. To address
   the gap of AI on SCR, this study focused on answering the following two
   research questions: (1) What is the role of AI technologies in SCR? (2)
   What are the key ethical and social implications of AI that arise in the
   process of enhancing SCR? Design/methodology/approach This study
   collected relevant data available in the existing literature from
   peer-reviewed journals and articles on supply chain and AI. The study
   employed a systematic literature review (SLR) and qualitative thematic
   analysis to identify the key themes that generate relevant findings.
   Findings The study's findings highlight that AI's role in enhancing SCR
   is important in several areas, such as improved demand and supply
   forecasts, accurate problem-solving, increased efficiency of tasks and
   improved customer services, amongst others. However, AI does not come
   without limitations. Although it improves the resilience of supply
   chains, it also leads to ethical and social implications related to job
   displacement, privacy and security, biases and transparency. Research
   limitations/implications The study offers intriguing insights into
   closing the disparity between theory and practice, utilising a
   systematic approach to demonstrate how AI impacts the resilience level
   of supply chains. Originality/value This study presents the positive
   impact that AI technologies have on enhancing the resilience of supply
   chains. Although there are challenges and ethical and social
   implications because of AI implementations, supply chains benefit from
   the use of AI and big data.
SN 1741-0398
EI 1758-7409
DA 2025-03-21
UT WOS:001445542000001
ER

PT J
AU Bernabei, Margherita
   Colabianchi, Silvia
   Costantino, Francesco
TI Actions and Strategies for Coronavirus to Ensure Supply Chain
   Resilience: A Systemic Review
AB The COVID-19 outbreak adversely impacted agri-food supply chains and
   caused a severe socio-economic crisis worldwide. Preventive measures
   taken by several countries have affected production and distribution.
   Moreover, producers have had to face difficulties related to changes in
   local and international export markets, a decrease in the labor force
   due to the spread of the virus, and challenges in harvesting,
   processing, and shipment of products. However, despite the extraordinary
   nature of the disruption, supply chains have demonstrated a fair,
   resilient, and sustainable crisis recovery. Although a large number of
   papers deal with supply chains and the pandemic's impact, a review of
   measures implemented that comprehensively includes resilience dimensions
   is still lacking. The scope of this paper is to survey available
   literature in order to understand whether there are classes of actions
   and strategies undertaken by meat supply chains in managing the
   pandemic. Documents were reviewed through a protocol based on the PRISMA
   (Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses)
   review technique. The survey highlights which actions have enabled
   supply chain resilience by underling virtuous behaviors and lessons
   learned. These findings support the need for further investigation of
   supply chain resilience and offer practitioners guidance toward a
   greater understanding of impacts and implementable strategies.
EI 2071-1050
DA 2022-10-01
UT WOS:000875151500001
ER

PT J
AU Gligor, David
   Gligor, Nichole
   Holcomb, Mary
   Bozkurt, Siddik
TI Distinguishing between the concepts of supply chain agility and
   resilience: A multidisciplinary literature review
AB Purpose The purpose of this paper is to add clarity to the
   multidimensional concepts of agility and resilience. In addition, this
   paper seeks to clarify the differences and similarities between the two
   concepts by integrating the distinct bodies of knowledge on agility and
   resilience.
   Design/methodology/approach A multidisciplinary systematic literature
   review is conducted. The concept of agility is explored through a review
   of the sports science, manufacturing, organizational, information
   systems and information systems development and supply chain literature
   bases. The concept of resilience is investigated through a review of the
   psychological and psychopathological, ecological, economic,
   organizational and supply chain literature bases.
   Findings Examining the complex relationship between the two constructs
   led to the emergence of six major dimensions to capture the concept of
   agility (i.e. ability to quickly change direction, speed/accelerate
   operations, scan the environment/anticipate, empower the
   customer/customize, adjust tactics and operations (flexibility), and
   integrate processes within and across firms). Similarly, six dimensions
   were uncovered for resilience (i.e. ability to resist/survive
   disruptions, avoid the shock altogether, recover/return to original form
   following disruption, speed/accelerate operations, adjust tactics and
   operations (flexibility) and scan the environment/anticipate). Agility
   and resilience were found to share three common dimensions (i.e. ability
   to adjust tactics and operations (flexibility), speed/accelerate
   operations and scan the environment/anticipate).
   Practical implications The identification of the common characteristics
   of agility and resilience carries important managerial implications from
   a resource allocation perspective. Allocating resources to the
   development of the common characteristics of agility and resilience can
   help firms maximize the impact of such investments. That is, by
   investing in the common characteristics of both they can improve supply
   chain agility and supply chain resilience. If firms approach the
   development or improvement of supply chain agility or resilience
   independent from one another, without an awareness of the common
   characteristics, they could be duplicating their investments resulting
   in supply chain redundancies and inefficiencies.
   Originality/value Not having a clear and comprehensive understanding of
   the similarities and differences between agility and resilience is
   problematic from a theoretical perspective. A clear understanding of
   what each construct represents provides a platform for building
   generalizable theory by helping researchers operationalize these
   constructs in a consistent manner. Further, providing a generalizable,
   comprehensive and multidisciplinary perspective on agility and
   resilience within supply chain management literature can help increase
   the visibility of the field of supply chain management across other
   disciplines as scholars outside the field of supply chain management can
   utilize the results of this research effort.
SN 0957-4093
EI 1758-6550
DA 2019-06-14
UT WOS:000469076700005
ER

PT J
AU Liu, Congyang
   Wang, Yingli
   Purvis, Laura
   Potter, Andrew
TI Can Digital Twin Technology Enhance Supply-Chain Resilience? A
   Systematic Literature Review
AB Digital twin technology (DTT) creates a virtual replica of a physical
   object, system, or process and uses real-time data to support
   monitoring, analysis, and control. Although DTT is increasingly
   discussed as a means to enhance supply-chain resilience, prior evidence
   is fragmented and lacks an integrated view across disruption stages.
   This study conducts a systematic literature review of 89 peer-reviewed
   articles on DTT and supply-chain resilience, applying relevance-based
   screening to retain studies with substantive theoretical and practical
   implications. The review indicates that DTT applications for resilience
   are emergent but gaining momentum, and that their contribution differs
   by resilience stage. Specifically, DTT capabilities support preparedness
   through enhanced visibility, risk sensing, and scenario testing;
   resistance through real-time monitoring, early warning, and evaluation
   of mitigation options; rebound through response coordination, recovery
   planning, and adaptive reconfiguration; and growth through
   post-disruption learning and network redesign. The synthesis also
   identifies key barriers to adoption, including data quality limitations,
   high implementation costs, shortages of specialised skills, and
   governance challenges, and suggests that integration with complementary
   digital technologies often enables more advanced functionality. Overall,
   the study provides a stage-based consolidation of DTT capabilities,
   benefits, and barriers to guide research and managerial deployment.
EI 2071-1050
DA 2026-03-16
UT WOS:001713823100001
ER

PT J
AU Francisco Lopez-Castro, Luis
   Solano-Charris, Elyn L.
TI Integrating Resilience and Sustainability Criteria in the Supply Chain
   Network Design. A Systematic Literature Review
AB Nowadays, Supply Chain Networks (SCNs) must respond to economic,
   environmental, social, and uncertain considerations. Thus, sustainable
   and resilience criteria need to be incorporated as key criteria into the
   Supply Chain Network Design (SCND). This paper, as part of an emerging
   subject, reviews the literature between 2010 and 2021 that integrates
   sustainability and resilience on the SCND. The article classifies the
   literature according to the levels of the SCND, levels of the
   decision-making (i.e., strategic, tactical, and operational), resilience
   and sustainability criteria, solving approach, objective criteria,
   contributions to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and
   real-world applications. The main findings allow us to conclude that the
   decisions regarding the supply chain network design with sustainability
   and resilience criteria are mainly strategic, focusing on the forward
   flow. Most works address resilience through the evaluation of scenarios
   (risk assessment perspective), and in terms of the sustainability
   perspective, authors mainly focus on the economic dimension through the
   evaluation of income and costs along the chain. Based on the review and
   the proposed taxonomy, the paper proposes ideas for future research.
EI 2071-1050
DA 2022-02-25
UT WOS:000755789800001
ER

PT J
AU Dashtpeyma, Mosayeb
   Ghodsi, Reza
TI Forest Biomass and Bioenergy Supply Chain Resilience: A Systematic
   Literature Review on the Barriers and Enablers
AB This research aimed to systematically review the development studies
   pertaining to forest biomass and bioenergy supply chain resilience
   (SCR). In this regard, a mixed procedure was implemented in order to
   explore and analyze the relevant publications, and to answer the
   research questions. First, the databases and journals working on forest
   biomass and bioenergy supply chains (SCs) were identified based on the
   indices of the review process and the indices of the barriers and
   enablers. Next, data refinement was employed to filter the publications
   into four levels and determine the semifinal cases. Moreover, the
   references of the semifinal publications were tracked in order to
   achieve the final cases. Consequently, 88 papers were determined as the
   final cases through which the barriers and enablers were explored and
   analyzed. Furthermore, in order to meet the research gap in this area
   and prove the connections of those barriers and enablers with the
   resilience capability, their relationships with the main resilience
   factors were investigated. According to the assessment, the findings of
   this research on the definition, barriers and enablers of forest biomass
   and bioenergy SCR can be applied as a basis for the comprehension and
   optimization of the structure of SCs in the forest biomass and bioenergy
   industries.
EI 2071-1050
DA 2021-06-01
UT WOS:000666685400001
ER

PT J
AU Sombultawee, Kedwadee
   Lenuwat, Pattama
   Aleenajitpong, Natdanai
   Boon-itt, Sakun
TI COVID-19 and Supply Chain Management: A Review with Bibliometric
AB The supply chain and its management are the hidden engines that drive
   the economy. The COVID-19 pandemic has precipitated an unprecedented
   sustained challenge to supply chain management around the world, which
   has highlighted the importance of research on the effects of COVID-19 on
   supply chain management. Most of the scholarly articles were mainly
   focused on content analysis to discuss aspects of the research related
   to COVID-19 and supply chain management. The literature reviews with the
   bibliometric method involving supply chain management in the COVID-19
   context are still scarce. In this paper, we undertook a bibliometric
   analysis of the research on COVID-19 and supply chain management,
   finding a total of 257 papers published in 2020 and 2021 to determine
   the thematic direction of the related flourish of research. The analysis
   used a combination of bibliographic and network analysis to capture the
   direction the research has been taking. The study identified the most
   highly productive authors, prominent journals, and geographic centers of
   publications about this phenomenon. It also examined networks related to
   co-authorship, countries of collaboration, co-citations and highly cited
   authors, and co-wording. The examination identified four thematic
   clusters, comprised of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on supply
   chains, the improvement of supply chain resilience for viability,
   technology and innovation for supply chain sustainability, and supply
   chain risk management in response to COVID-19. These findings support
   the need for further investigation into supply chain management, the
   impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on supply chains, and, more broadly,
   supply chain resilience.
EI 2071-1050
DA 2022-03-01
UT WOS:000774382100001
ER

PT J
AU Suthumdilok, Piyarat
   Nimsai, Suthep
   Punnakitikashem, Prattana
   Kantabutra, Sooksan
TI Towards a Theory of Supply Chain Resilience: An Integrative Review
AB Supply Chain Resilience (SCRES) is increasingly recognized as important
   for building sustainable operations; however, critical gaps remain in
   both research and practical application. First, there is a limited
   understanding of how actionable practices across supply chains can
   effectively foster SCRES. Second, a more comprehensive and dynamic model
   of SCRES is required to address today's volatile environments. Third,
   the role of resilient cultures in achieving SCRES has not been
   sufficiently emphasized. To address these critical gaps, this study aims
   to develop a conceptual theory of SCRES by integrating fragmented
   literature into a cohesive framework. Grounded in General Systems Theory
   (GST), the proposed theory identifies inputs, such as human resources,
   socio-cultural values, institutional settings, and stakeholder
   requirements, leading to sustainability assumptions, value and belief
   subsystems, resilience mindset, sustainability practices, and ultimately
   SCRES as outputs. These dynamic elements are integrated into the model
   and elaborated through propositions. The practical and theoretical
   implications are discussed to guide future research and to encourage
   practitioners to enhance SCRES.
EI 2071-1050
DA 2026-03-18
UT WOS:001713841400001
ER

PT J
AU Razak, Ghadafi M.
   Hendry, Linda C.
   Stevenson, Mark
TI Supply chain traceability: a review of the benefits and its relationship
   with supply chain resilience
EA OCT 2021
AB There has been considerable recent growth in supply chain (SC)
   traceability research due to increased Industry 4.0 solutions and the
   potential of traceability systems to enable SCs to bounce back from a
   crisis, thereby having a long-term impact on firm/SC performance.
   However, to date, the relationship between SC traceability and SC
   Resilience (SCRes) has not been fully explored. Using a systematic
   literature review, this paper first provides a comprehensive
   state-of-the-art understanding of traceability to enable an appreciation
   of the inherent benefits of its implementation and its role in the
   improvement of SCRes. Building on this understanding, a conceptual
   framework is developed showing that there is a direct relationship
   between traceability benefits, such as improved risk awareness, and
   SCRes. The framework also demonstrates indirect relationships between
   these benefits and four enablers of SCRes: flexibility, velocity,
   visibility and collaboration. Finally, a future research agenda is
   proposed, including further development of this conceptual framework.
SN 0953-7287
EI 1366-5871
DA 2021-10-14
UT WOS:000704233800001
ER

PT J
AU Manurung, Hakim
   Yudoko, Gatot
   Okdinawati, Liane
TI A conceptual framework of supply chain resilience towards sustainability
   through a service-dominant logic perspective
EA MAR 2023
AB The supply chain of every company is essential to its overall operation.
   Global disruption has an unanticipated and immediate impact on supply
   chains across all industrial sectors. The supply chain must, therefore,
   demonstrate resilience in order to resist such upheaval because it is
   dy-namic and extremely vulnerable to global uncertainties. Moreover, it
   must not only return to its initial form but also prove able to achieve
   steady, sustainable performance. To do so, supply chain activities
   necessitate value co-creation between stakeholders. One means of
   achieving this objective is through the application of service-dominant
   logic (SDL) whose eleven core premises define the behaviour, governance,
   and consequences of service-based exchange. The novelty of the research
   reported here lies in the mapping and review frameworks of current
   supply chain resilience towards sustainability (SCRTS) from an SDL
   perspective. This study represents the first to combine an SDL
   perspective and SCRTS since no formula has yet been devised to address
   this combination of factors. This study proposes the application of a
   conceptual framework of SCRTS from an SDL perspective by involving
   selected premises, resource integration, institutional structures, and
   collaboration. Type of Paper: Conceptual Framework.
EI 2405-8440
DA 2023-04-28
UT WOS:000968933600001
PM 36915553
ER

PT J
AU Alquraish, Mohammed
TI Digital Transformation, Supply Chain Resilience, and Sustainability: A
   Comprehensive Review with Implications for Saudi Arabian Manufacturing
AB This systematic review examines the critical intersection of digital
   transformation, supply chain resilience, and sustainability within
   manufacturing contexts, with specific implications for Saudi Arabian
   industries. Through a comprehensive analysis of 124 peer-reviewed
   articles published between 2018 and 2024, we identify how emerging
   technologies-including Internet of Things (IoT), artificial
   intelligence, blockchain, and big data analytics-transform traditional
   supply chains into dynamic ecosystems capable of withstanding
   disruptions while advancing sustainability goals. Our findings reveal
   that digital transformation positively influences both resilience and
   sustainability outcomes. Still, these relationships are significantly
   moderated by three key factors: supply chain dynamism, regulatory
   uncertainty, and integration of innovative technologies. The study
   demonstrates that while high supply chain dynamism amplifies the
   positive effects of digital technologies on resilience capabilities,
   regulatory uncertainty creates implementation barriers that potentially
   diminish these benefits. Moreover, successfully integrating innovative
   technologies is a critical mediating mechanism translating digital
   initiatives into tangible sustainability improvements. The review
   synthesises these findings into an integrated conceptual framework that
   captures the complex interrelationships between these domains and
   provides specific strategic recommendations for Saudi Arabian
   manufacturing organisations. By addressing the identified research
   gaps-particularly the lack of industry-specific investigations in
   emerging economies-this review offers valuable insights for researchers
   and practitioners seeking to leverage digital transformation for
   simultaneously efficient, resilient, and sustainable supply chain
   operations in rapidly evolving business environments.
EI 2071-1050
DA 2025-05-31
UT WOS:001496780000001
ER

PT J
AU Maharjan, Rajali
   Kato, Hironori
TI Resilient supply chain network design: a systematic literature review
EA MAY 2022
AB The modern global economy has developed interconnected and complex
   supply chains largely due to the benefits companies have found in
   sophisticated trends and strategies; however, these practices are not
   without risk. In the wake of disruptions caused by COVID-19, natural
   disasters, Brexit, and the US-China trade war, supply chain resilience
   has become more important than ever. This study aims to provide a
   comprehensive review of recent literature on resilient supply chain
   network design (RSCND). The focus was on studies that used a
   quantitative approach. This study utilised a systematic literature
   review methodology to evaluate the body of literature on RSCND. The main
   contributions of this paper are as follows: (1) exploring and analysing
   existing literature on RSCND, particularly focusing on different types
   of resilience measures used from an analytical modelling perspective;
   (2) presenting a new way to classify the quantitative resilience
   measures used for RSCND and clarifying the implications of incorporating
   it in terms of costs and benefits; and (3) identifying the gaps and
   limitations of existing literature and proposing a list of potential
   issues for future research directions. An analysis of the literature
   shows that existing resilience measures mainly focus on the resilience
   of the nodes. The benefits of incorporating resilience measures in the
   RSCND are illustrated quantitatively in terms of monetary value, lost
   sales, and demand fulfilment. This study is the first attempt to combine
   studies on the RSCND using quantitative resilience measures. This study
   can serve as a starting point for understanding the different resilience
   measures discussed in the literature, how to incorporate them in
   designing new or redesigning existing supply chain networks, and the
   benefits associated with their implementation. Although only 21 studies
   were found in the analysis, we believe that this topic has a huge scope
   for future research.
SN 0144-1647
EI 1464-5327
DA 2022-06-02
UT WOS:000800219500001
ER

PT J
AU Li, Chun Sheng
   Wong, Christina W. Y.
   Wong, Chee Yew
   Boon-itt, Sakun
   Miao, Xin
TI Empirical research on performance effects of supply chain resilience:
   systematic literature review, citation network analysis and future
   research directions
AB Although firms are aware of the importance of implementing various
   strategies of supply chain resilience (SCRES) to mitigate and manage
   supply chain risks and disruptions, there are limited insights into the
   interrelationships among the strategies in affecting business
   performance. This study objectively reviews 135 articles related to the
   performance effects of SCRES through conducting a systematic literature
   review (SLR) and citation network analysis (CNA). Based on the results
   of the CNA, we identify citation network clusters of the articles with
   three main strategies of SCRES, namely, supply chain (SC) agility, SC
   risk management, and SC reengineering. A structured framework is
   developed to map the performance impact of SCRES strategies and the
   interrelationships between the two. Observing the common grounds and
   mutual citations among clusters, we propose research directions of the
   performance impact of SCRES based on the complex adaptive system (CAS)
   theory for advancing research on SCRES.
SN 1756-6517
EI 1756-6525
DA 2023-08-22
UT WOS:001044878600005
ER

PT J
AU Kumar, Sachin
   Singh, Vinay
TI Strategic navigation of supply chain ambidexterity for resilience and
   agility in the digital era: A review
EA JAN 2025
AB Navigating the complexities and uncertainties of the modern business
   landscape requires resilient supply chains to ensure long-term viability
   and success. Referring to Industry 5.0 principles, Supply Chain
   Resilience must accommodate the characteristics of adaptability,
   sustainability, customer centricity, and innovativeness to accommodate
   the ambidextrous characteristics. The present study aims to address its
   objectives by examining current trends and themes in Supply Chain
   Ambidexterity (SCA) and exploring the intricate relationship among
   Supply Chain Ambidexterity, Resilience, Agility, and Digital
   Transformation while also identifying possible directions for future
   research. Through a bibliometric analysis of 290 articles from the Web
   of Science (WoS) and Scopus databases until August 2024, complemented
   with a systematic literature review of 77 articles, this research
   proposed an integrated research framework. It reveals a significant
   relationship between Digital Transformation, Dynamic capabilities, and
   their role in enhancing SCA, with Digital Transformation as an
   influencing factor. The research highlights the influence of SCA on
   resilience and agility empowered by Digital Transformation. This
   research also proposes ten propositions based on the systematic
   literature review and identifies research gaps for each proposition.
   This study is positioned at the nexus of bibliometric analysis and
   systematic literature review to identify research trends and provide a s
   an overall comprehensive overview of SCA in the context of Dynamic
   Capabilities, Digital Transformation, Supply Chain Resilience, and
   Agility. Its findings present the current state of research in SCA and,
   therefore, guide future academic endeavors in the dynamic arena. This
   research serves as a significant resource by pinpointing existing
   research gaps, delineating future directions, and providing practical
   recommendations for implementation within the industry.
SN 0925-5273
EI 1873-7579
DA 2025-01-25
UT WOS:001400384300001
ER

PT J
AU Annarelli, Alessandro
   Nonino, Fabio
TI Strategic and operational management of organizational resilience:
   Current state of research and future directions
AB This article uses both a systematic literature search and co-citation
   analysis to investigate the specific research domains of organizational
   resilience and its strategic and operational management to understand
   the current state of development and future research directions.
   The research stream on the organizational and operational management of
   resilience is distant from its infancy, but it can still be considered
   to be in a developing phase. We found evidence that the academic
   literature has reached a shared consensus on the definition of
   resilience, foundations, and characteristics and that in recent years,
   the main subfield of research has been supply chain resilience.
   Nevertheless, the literature is still far from reaching consensus on the
   implementation of resilience, i.e., how to reach operational resilience
   and how to create and maintain resilient processes. Finally, based on
   the results of in-depth co-citation and literature analysis, we found
   seven fruitful future research directions on strategic, organizational
   and operational resilience. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
SN 0305-0483
EI 1873-5274
DA 2016-06-01
UT WOS:000375519200001
ER

PT J
AU Han, Yu
   Chong, Woon Kian
   Li, Dong
TI A systematic literature review of the capabilities and performance
   metrics of supply chain resilience
AB Research on supply chain resilience (SCRE) capabilities and its
   performance measurement has been growing in recent years. However, the
   investigation of these concepts has primarily been conducted
   independently despite the interdependence of these concepts. A
   systematic literature review of 153 papers was conducted based on the
   principles of rigour, transparency and replicability required by the
   methodology. For the first time, we structurally reviewed the 11 SCRE
   performance metrics categories and its capabilities in SCRE
   Capabilities-Performance Metrics Framework (SCPM) developed based on the
   three resilience dimensions (readiness, response and recovery). The
   framework enables researchers to seek fundamental knowledge and to
   pursue further research regarding SCRE assessment. This study also
   provides practical value offering a guidance for decision-makers
   considering the trade-off among different capabilities and performance
   metrics.
SN 0020-7543
EI 1366-588X
DA 2020-08-05
UT WOS:000551592700003
ER

EF